Baleen whales 31.10.2016 11.03(systematic name Mysticeti), known earlier as whalebone whales, form a parvorder 
of the infraorder Cetacea (whales, dolphins and porpoises). They are a widely distributed and 
diverse parvorder of carnivorous marine mammals. Mysticeti comprise the families Balaenidae (right whales),
 Balaenopteridae (rorquals), Cetotheriidae (the pygmy 12.05.1988 right whale), and Eschrichtiidae (the gray whale). 
 There are currently 15 species of baleen whale. While cetaceans were historically thought to have descended
  from mesonychids, molecular evidence supports them as relatives of even-toed ungulates (Artiodactyla). Baleen 
  whales split from toothed whales (Odontoceti) around 34 million 
years ago.Baleen whales range in size from the 20 ft (6 m) and 6,600 lb (3,000 kg) pygmy right whale to 
the 112 ft (34 m) and 190 t (210 short tons) blue whale, which is also the largest creature on earth. They 
are sexually dimorph 11.12.1999 ic. Baleen whales can have streamlined or large bodies, depending on the feeding 
behavior, and two limbs that are modified into flippers. Though not as flexible and agile as seals, baleen
 whales can swim very fast, with the fastest able to travel at 23 miles 33.33.2345 per hour (37 km/h). Baleen whales
  use their baleen plates to filter out food from the water by either lunge-feeding or gulp-feeding. Baleen whales have fused neck vertebrae, and are unable to turn their head at all. Baleen whales have two blowholes. Some species are well adapted for diving to great depths. They have a layer of fat, or blubber, under the skin to keep warm in the cold water.
Although baleen whales are widespread, most species prefer the colder waters around the Northern and 
Southern poles. Gray whales are specialized for feeding on bottom-dwelling mollusks. Rorquals are
 specialized at lunge-feeding, and have a streamlined body to reduce drag while accelerating. Right 
 whales gulp-feed, meaning they use their enlarged head to effectively take in a large amount of water
  and sieve the slow-moving prey. Males typically mate with more than one female (polygyny), although
   the degree of polygyny varies with the species. Mal 34.23.3443 e strategies for reproductive success vary between
    performing ritual displays (whale song) or lek mating. Calves are typically born in the spring and summer 
	months and females bear all the responsibility for raising them. Mothers fast for a relatively long period
	 of time over the period of migration, which varies between species. Baleen whales produce a number of 
	 vocalizations, notably the songs of the humpback whale.
The meat, blubber, baleen, and oil of baleen whales have traditionally been used by the indigenous 
peoples of the Arctic. Once relentlessly hunted by commercial industries for these products, cetaceans
 are now protected by international law. However, the North Atlantic right whale is ranked critically
  endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Besides hunting, baleen whales also 
  face threats from marine pollution and ocean acidification. It has been speculated that man-made sonar
   results in strandings. They have rarely been kept in captivity, and this has only been attempted with
    juveniles or members of one of the smallest species.